Formalize TVM Documentation Organization (#27)
apache/tvm-rfcs: rfcs/0027-formalize-documentation-organization.md

- Feature Name: `Formalize TVM Documentation Organization`
- Start Date: 2021-09-01
- RFC PR: [apache/tvm-rfcs#0027](https://github.com/apache/tvm-rfcs/pull/0027)
- GitHub Issue: [apache/tvm#00xx](https://github.com/apache/tvm/issues/0000)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

This RFC proposes a refactoring of TVM documentation. The goal of this refactor
is to create a document architecture that classifies four major documentation types:

* Tutorials,
* How-tos,
* Deep Dives,
* and Reference

> then organizes the documents them based on those types. The desired result is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then organizes the documents based on those types. The desired result is
```

> to make it easier for entire TVM community, to easily find documentation to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to make it easier for the entire TVM community to find documentation that
```

meet their needs, whether they are new users or experienced users. Another goal

> is to make it easier for the development community to contribute to the TVM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is to make it easier for the developer community to contribute to the TVM
```

the community, to address the immediate needs of the developer community. However, one
consistent piece of feedback is that the documentation is difficult to navigate, with beginner
material mixed in with advanced material. As a result, it can be difficult for new users
to find the exact information they need, and can work against the vision of the project.

This RFC aims to refactor the organization of the TVM docs, loosely following the [formal
documentation style described by Divio](https://documentation.divio.com). This system has been chosen
because it is a:

> "simple, comprehensive and nearly universally-applicable scheme. It is proven
> in practice across a wide variety of fields and applications."

This RFC is primarily concerned with the organization of the documents, and not
the content. As such, the implementation of this RFC would move documents, and
only create new documents as top-level placeholders, indexes, and documentation
about the system itself.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

## The Four Document Types

### Introductory Tutorials

These are step by step guides to introduce new users to a project. A successful

> introductory tutorial successfully get the user engaged with the software

Reviewer 2: nit: rm successfully

without necessarily explaining why the software works the way it does. Those
explanations can be saved for other document types; the introductory tutorial
focuses on a successful first experience. These are the most important docs to
turning newcomers into new users and developers. A fully end-to-end tutorial,
from installing TVM and supporting ML software, to creating and training a
model, to compiling to different architectures will give a new user the

> opportunity to use TVM in the most efficient way possible.

Reviewer 2: could you explain more the difference between a tutorial and a how-to? Right now, "A fully end-to-end tutorial,
from installing TVM and supporting ML software, to creating and training a model, to compiling to different architectures" would likely have some step-by-step component. Can you explain what additional content should be in here to make it a tutorial?

Author: @areusch I've updated a bit, does this look better now?

Tutorials need to be repeatable and reliable, because the lack of success means
a user will look for other solutions.

### How-to Guides

These are step by step guides on how to solve particular problems. The user can
ask meaningful questions, and the documents provide answers. An examples of
this type of document might be, “how do I compile an optimized model for ARM
architecture?” or “how do I compile and optimize a TensorFlow model?” These
documents should be open enough that a user could see how to apply it to a new
use case. Practical usability is more important than completeness. The title
should tell the user what problem the how-to is solving.

How are tutorials different from how-tos? A tutorial is oriented towards the

> new developer, and focuses on successfully introducing them to the software and

Reviewer: A new user or a new developer? I'd assume that tutorials are oriented towards users first, then developers?

Author: It depends on the tutorial type, as we will have some for users and some for developers. I'll clarify.

Author: @tkonolige wdyt with the update?

community. A how-to in contrast focuses on accomplishing a specific task within

> the context of basic understanding. A tutorial helps to onboard, a how-to helps

Reviewer 2: sorry here i see this now. it seems like the distinction is scope--the tutorial being broader basic understanding and the how-to being focused on a singular task. can you reflect that in the Tutorial description above? I want us to be as clear as possible here.

Author: The primary difference is a how-to requires basic prior knowledge of the software, and answers a question that user would have. A tutorial assumes no knowledge, and is meant show a user what they can accomplish with the software.

to accomplish a task.

### Reference

Reference documentation describes how the software is configured and operated.
APIs, key functions, commands, and interfaces are all candidates for reference
documentation. These are the technical manuals that let users build their own
interfaces and programs. They are information oriented, focused on lists and
descriptions. You can assume that the audience has a grasp on how the software
works and is looking for specific answers to specific questions. Ideally, the
reference documentation should have the same structure as the code base and
generated automatically as much as possible.

### Explanations (Deep Dive)

Background material on a topic. These documents help to illuminate and
understand the application environment. Why are things the way they are? What
were the design decisions, what alternatives were considered, what are the RFCs
describing the existing system. This includes academic papers and links to
publications relevant to the software. Within these documents you can explore
contradictory and conflicting position, and help the reader make sense of how
and why the software was built the way it is. It’s not the place for how-to’s

> and technical descriptions, and instead focuses on higher level concepts.

Reviewer: Are explanations developer oriented?

Author: Again, could be either. Will clarify.

## Special considerations for TVM

The TVM comunity has some special considerations that require deviation from the simple
docs style outlined by Divio. The first is that there is frequently overlap between the
user and developer communities. Many projects document the develper and user experience
with separate systems, but it is appropriate to consider both in this system, with

> differentiations where appropriate. As a result there tutorials and how-tos will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
differentiations where appropriate. As a result the tutorials and how-tos will be
```

> divided between "User Guides" and "How-to Guides".

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand here. Are "User Guides" and "How-to Guides" the equivalent of tutorials and how-tos for developers?

> The next is that there are special topics within the TVM community that benefit from additional

Reviewer: I think you forgot a word here? The next what?

> attention. These topic include, but are not limited to, Micro TVM and VTA. Special 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attention. These topics include, but are not limited to, microTVM and VTA. Special 
```

"Topic Guides" can be created to index existing material, and provide context on how to naviagate
that material most effectively.

> To facilitate newcomers, a special "Getting Started" section with installatoion instructions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To facilitate newcomers, a special "Getting Started" section with installation instructions,
```

a overview of why to use TVM, and other first-experience douments will be produced. 

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

## Document Organization

> ### L3 - Top Level

Reviewer: What does L3 mean here? I don't see it introduced anywhere in this document.

* Getting Started
* User Guide

> * TVM Topic Guide

Author: Done

    * Introduction to TOPI
    * Quick Start Tutorial for Compiling Deep Learning Models
  * How To
    * Install TVM
    * Install from Source
    * Docker Images
    * Compile Deep Learning Models
    * Deploy Deep Learning Models
    * Work With Relay
    * Work with Tensor Expression and Schedules
    * Optimize Tensor Operators
    * Auto-Tune with Templates and AutoTVM
    * Use AutoScheduler for Template-Free Auto Scheduling
    * Work With microTVM
* TVM Topic Guide
  * MicroTVM Guide (index to existing docs)
    * -> Work With microTVM
    * ->  microTVM Architecture
  * VTA (index to existing docs)
* Developer Guide
  * TVM Contributor Tutorial
    * …
  * How To
    * Write an operator
    * Write a backend
    * …
* TVM Architecture Guide
  * Architecture Overview
  * Research Papers
  * Frontend
  * Relay: Graph-level design: IR, pass, lowering
  * TensorIR: Operator-level design: IR, schedule, pass, lowering
  * TOPI: Pre-defined operators operator coverage
  * AutoScheduler / AutoTVM: Performance tuning design
  * Runtime & microTVM design
  * Customization with vendor libraries BYOC workflow
  * RPC system
  * Target system
* API Reference (reference)

>   * Generated C++ Docs…

Reviewer 2: nit: expand ellipsis

Author: Done

reflects the organization of Sphinx documentation folder, for example:

    tvm/
      docs/
        deep_dive/
        how_tos/
          index.rst
          **compile_models/**
          ...
        reference/
        **tutorial/**
        dev_deep_dive/
        dev_how_tos/
        dev_reference/
        dev_tutorial/

Depending on the type of documentation, some of the directories may be
generated. For example, the tutorial and compile_models directories are
auto-generated by Sphinx Gallery. To add a new Sphinx Gallery requires the
following steps:

1. Create a gallery subdirectory with the how-to or tutorial documents
2. Create entries in the docs conf.py example_dirs and gallery_dirs variables
   to reference the source and target directories.
3. Update the appropriate index pages in the docs subdirectories to add the new
   directories to the Sphinx table of contents.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

One consistent drawback of this approach is how major subprojects are handled.
For example, microTVM may require a specific set of tutorials and how-tos, but
these can become mixed in with other TVM specific documents. This will be
mitigated through two means:

> 

Reviewer: Maybe remove this newline if "two means" refers to the first two sentences of the next paragraph?

Author: Fixed.

> Subdirectories within the How-Tos can target specific topics Landing pages can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subdirectories within the How-Tos can target specific topics. Landing pages can
```

- Feature Name: `Formalize TVM Documentation Organization`
- Start Date: 2021-09-01
- RFC PR: [apache/tvm-rfcs#0027](https://github.com/apache/tvm-rfcs/pull/0027)
- GitHub Issue: [apache/tvm#00xx](https://github.com/apache/tvm/issues/0000)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

This RFC proposes a refactoring of TVM documentation. The goal of this refactor
is to create a document architecture that classifies four major documentation
types:

* Tutorials,
* How-tos,
* Deep Dives,
* and Reference

then organizes the documents based on those types. The desired result is to
make it easier for the entire TVM community to find documentation that meet
their needs, whether they are new users or experienced users. Another goal is
to make it easier for the developer community to contribute to the TVM

> documentation. It recognizes that while in most communities there is a distinct
> divide between the user and the developer communities, there can be significant
> overlap given the nature of TVM as an optimizing compiler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documentation. While most communities have a distinct divide between the user and the developer, TVM's community has a significant overlap due to TVM's use as an optimizing compiler.
```

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

TVM has seen an explosion of growth since it was released as an open source

> project, and formally grauated as an official Apache Software Foundation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
project, and formally graduated into an official Apache Software Foundation
```

project. The vision of the Apache TVM Project is to host a "diverse community
of experts and practitioners in machine learning, compilers, and systems
architecture to build an accessible, extensible, and automated open-source
framework that optimizes current and emerging machine learning models for any
hardware platform."

The TVM community has done an excellent job in producing a wide range of
documents to describe how to successfully install, use, and develop for TVM.

> The documenation project grew with the community, to address the immediate
> needs of the developer community. However, one consistent piece of feedback is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The documentation project grew with the community to address the immediate
needs of the developer. However, one consistent piece of feedback is
```

project.

This RFC aims to refactor the organization of the TVM docs, loosely following
the [formal documentation style described by
Divio](https://documentation.divio.com). This system has been chosen because it
is a:

> "simple, comprehensive and nearly universally-applicable scheme. It is proven
> in practice across a wide variety of fields and applications."

This RFC is primarily concerned with the organization of the documents, and not
the content. As such, the implementation of this RFC would move documents, and
only create new documents as top-level placeholders, indexes, and documentation
about the system itself.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

## The Four Document Types

### Introductory Tutorials

These are step by step guides to introduce new users to a project. An
introductory tutorial is designed to get a user engaged with the software
without necessarily explaining why the software works the way it does. Those
explanations can be saved for other document types. An introductory tutorial
focuses on a successful first experience. These are the most important docs to

> turning newcomers into new users and developers. A fully end-to-end tutorial,
> from installing TVM and supporting ML software, to creating and training a
> model, to compiling to different architectures will give a new user the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
turning newcomers into new users and developers. A fully end-to-end tutorial&mdash;
from installing TVM and supporting ML software, to creating and training a
model, to compiling to different architectures&mdash;will give a new user the
```

opportunity to use TVM in the most efficient way possible. A tutorial teaches a
beginner something they need to know. This is in contrast with a how-to, which
is meant to be an answer to a question that a user with some experience would
ask.

Tutorials need to be repeatable and reliable, because the lack of success means
a user will look for other solutions.

### How-to Guides

These are step by step guides on how to solve particular problems. The user can
ask meaningful questions, and the documents provide answers. An examples of
this type of document might be, “how do I compile an optimized model for ARM
architecture?” or “how do I compile and optimize a TensorFlow model?” These
documents should be open enough that a user could see how to apply it to a new
use case. Practical usability is more important than completeness. The title
should tell the user what problem the how-to is solving.

How are tutorials different from how-tos? A tutorial is oriented towards the
new developer, and focuses on successfully introducing them to the software and

> community. A how-to in contrast focuses on accomplishing a specific task within

Reviewer: ```suggestion
community. A how-to, in contrast, focuses on accomplishing a specific task within
```

> the context of basic understanding. A tutorial helps to onboard, a how-to helps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the context of basic understanding. A tutorial helps to onboard; a how-to helps
```

to accomplish a task.

### Reference

Reference documentation describes how the software is configured and operated.
APIs, key functions, commands, and interfaces are all candidates for reference
documentation. These are the technical manuals that let users build their own
interfaces and programs. They are information oriented, focused on lists and
descriptions. You can assume that the audience has a grasp on how the software
works and is looking for specific answers to specific questions. Ideally, the
reference documentation should have the same structure as the code base and

> generated automatically as much as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be generated automatically as much as possible.
```

### Explanations (Deep Dive)

> Background material on a topic. These documents help to illuminate and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explanations are background material on a topic. These documents help to illuminate and
```

understand the application environment. Why are things the way they are? What
were the design decisions, what alternatives were considered, what are the RFCs
describing the existing system. This includes academic papers and links to
publications relevant to the software. Within these documents you can explore
contradictory and conflicting position, and help the reader make sense of how
and why the software was built the way it is. It’s not the place for how-to’s
and technical descriptions, and instead focuses on higher level concepts.

## Special considerations for TVM

The TVM comunity has some special considerations that require deviation from
the simple docs style outlined by Divio. The first is that there is frequently
overlap between the user and developer communities. Many projects document the
develper and user experience with separate systems, but it is appropriate to
consider both in this system, with differentiations where appropriate. As a
result the tutorials and how-tos will be divided between "User Guides" and

> "How-to Guides".

Reviewer: User guides are for users and how-to guides are for developers? Maybe state that explicitly?

The next is that there are special topics within the TVM community that benefit
from additional attention. These topics include, but are not limited to,
microTVM and VTA. Special "Topic Guides" can be created to index existing
material, and provide context on how to naviagate that material most
effectively.

To facilitate newcomers, a special "Getting Started" section with installation
instructions, a overview of why to use TVM, and other first-experience douments
will be produced. 

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

## Document Organization

### Top Level Organization

* Getting Started
* User Guide
* Topic Guide
* Developer Guide
* TVM Architecture Guide

> * API Reference (reference)

Reviewer 3: minor note: we have language reference which served as a comprehensive reference to the language specification. see https://tvm.apache.org/docs/langref/index.html, would be great to clarify where do they fit

Author: It could go either way, in the Architecture Guide or in the Reference. Since it started as a reference document, and language references are much more status, I expanded the Reference section to include API and Language. Let me know what you think.

to characterize documents within the system (“Should this be a developer or
user doc?” “Is this a tutorial or a how-to?”), working within the constraints
of a formalized system brings many benefits:

It helps prevent documentation sprawl. Rather than create new top-level
headings to capture new ideas, new ideas are logically documented at different
levels of detail within the for existing types.  It creates a consistent user
experience. Users know exactly where to look depending on their needs. New
users will find a path to success through tutorials, while existing users who
need to solve common tasks can look to the how-tos for guidance.  It encourages
new documentation. Developers have a framework for what docs should look like,
and where they should go.  It takes advantage of current content. A
proof-of-concept implementation of this method consisted largely of moving new
documents.  It creates a framework to improve existing content. Many how-tos
duplicate steps repeatedly. This will allow us to identify the duplications and
refactor the documents into more targeted forms.  In researching documentation

> systems, there aren’t many formalized systems that have been published.

Reviewer: Make these bullet points?

Author: Fixed, thanks
